selenium Q&A:

what is selenium:
it is automation suit that is used for automating webbased application 
it suppports multiple browsers and language and platforms.

different forms of selenium:

selenium webdriver:it is used to automate webapplication
selenium IDE:firefox plugin that works on record and playback principle
selenium RC:it is remote control which use to automate webapplication using javascript
selenium grid:it allows selenium test to run in parallel across multiple machine

advantages of selenium:
it is a open source so its free of cost.
supports multiple languages.
supports multiple browsers.
supports various platforms.
using selenium IDE componenets,non programmers can also write automation script.

limitations:
we cannnot automate desktop application.
we cannot auotomate web services.
we have to rely on external libraries and tools for perfroming tasks like junit,testng,log4j.

ways of locating element in selenium:

id:
name:
class name:
tag name:
xpath:
css selector:
linktext:
partial linktext:

what is Xpath:
it is query language for selecting nodes from xml document.

absolute xpath:
it is way of locating element using xml expression begins from the root node.
disadvantage of using this is if any one UI element changes no such element found exception will be thrown.
(/) slash will be used.

relative xpath:
it is way of locating element using xml expression begins from anywhere in HTML document.it is unaffected even if some UI
elements changed.
(//) slash will be used.
xpath expression=//*[text()='username']

switch to multiple windows:
driver.getwindowhandle();it will 
driver.getwindowhandle();it will switch to multiple windows
for (string windowhandle : driver.getwindowhandles())
{
driver.sitchto.window(handle);
}

move to a prticular frame:
driver.switchto().frame({"framename/id"});
for locating  frame we can use imdex,id,name.

how can we fetch a text in selenium:
driver.findElemntby().gettext(); 

how to find value of different attributes like name,class,id of element.
driver.findElemntby().getAttribute("value");

to delete cookies:
driver.manage().deleteallcookies(); 

implicit wait:
implicit wait is a wait which waits for a specified time while locating element before 
throwing nosuchelement exception.

driver.manage().timeout().implictlywait(0,timeunit.seconds);

double click in selenium:
Actions action =new Actions(driver);
webelemeent element=driver.findelementby();
action.doubleclick(element).build.perform();

contextclick(right click) in selenium:
Actions action =new Actions(driver);
webelemeent element=driver.findelementby();
action.contextclick(element).build.perform();

mouse hover an element in selenium:

Actions action =new Actions(driver);
webelemeent element=driver.findelementby();
action.moveToElement(element).build.perform();

without using system.set property can we open a browser?
yes
we can do environmental variable:
in system variables go to path and set:the location of the chrome driver or fire fox driver.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

